How easily happiness begins by
dicing onions. A lump of sweet butter
slithers and swirls across the floor
of the sauté pan, especially if its
errant path crosses a tiny slick
of olive oil. Then a tumble of onions.

This could mean soup or risotto
or chutney (from the Sanskrit
chatni, to lick). Slowly the onions
go limp and then nacreous
and then what cookbooks call clear,
though if they were eyes you could see

clearly the cataracts in them.
It’s true it can make you weep
to peel them, to unfurl and to tease
from the taut ball first the brittle,
caramel-colored and decrepit
papery outside layer, the least

recent the reticent onion
wrapped around its growing body,
for there’s nothing to an onion
but skin, and it’s true you can go on
weeping as you go on in, through
the moist middle skins, the sweetest

and thickest, and you can go on
in to the core, to the bud-like,
acrid, fibrous skins densely
clustered there, stalky and in-
complete, and these are the most
pungent, like the nuggets of nightmare

and rage and murmury animal
comfort that infant humans secrete.
This is the best domestic perfume.
You sit down to eat with a rumor
of onions still on your twice-washed
hands and lift to your mouth a hint

of a story about loam and usual
endurance. It’s there when you clean up
and rinse the wine glasses and make
a joke, and you leave the minutest
whiff of it on the light switch,
later, when you climb the stairs.


Onion,
luminous flask,
your beauty formed
petal by petal,
crystal scales expanded you
and in the secrecy of the dark earth
your belly grew round with dew.
Under the earth
the miracle
happened
and when your clumsy
green stem appeared,
and your leaves were born
like swords
in the garden,
the earth heaped up her power
showing your naked transparency,
and as the remote sea
in lifting the breasts of Aphrodite
duplicating the magnolia,
so did the earth
make you,
onion
clear as a planet
and destined
to shine,
constant constellation,
round rose of water,
upon
the table
of the poor.

You make us cry without hurting us.
I have praised everything that exists,
but to me, onion, you are
more beautiful than a bird
of dazzling feathers,
heavenly globe, platinum goblet,
unmoving dance
of the snowy anemone

and the fragrance of the earth lives
in your crystalline nature.

It doesn't matter how precisely the onion is cut as long as the person chewing it is happy!
Good intentions are not enough. They've never put an onion in the soup yet.
It is hard to imagine civilization without onions.
    Mild winter coming in.
    Onion skins very tough,
    Coming winter very rough.
    -old English rhyme
If you hear an onion ring, answer it.
I will not move my army without onions!
Mine eyes smell onions: I shall weep anon.
Life is like an onion; you peel off layer after layer and then you find there is nothing in it.
The onion and its satin wrappings is among the most beautiful of vegetables and is the only one that represents the essence of things. It can be said to have a soul.
It's probably illegal to make soups, stews and casseroles without plenty of onions.
Shallots are for babies; Onions are for men
Banish (the onion) from the kitchen and the pleasure flies with it. Its presence lends color and enchantment to the most modest dish; its absence reduces the rarest delicacy to hopeless insipidity, and dinner to despair.
Onions make me sad. A lot of people don't realize that.
The onion tribe is prophylactic and highly invigorating, and even more necessary to cookery than parsley itself.
If you dig deep and keep peeling the onion, artists and freelance writers are the leaders in society; the people who start to get new ideas out.
The smell of onion is the most effective thing for relieving stinging eyes irritated by tear gas.
Onions and bacon cooking up just makes your kitchen smell so good. In fact, one day I'm going to come up with a room deodorizer that smells like bacon and onions. It's a fabulous smell.
I like salty, creamy foods. I could sit down with a bag of chips and French onion dip and go to town!
Take care to chop the onion fine.
If you are clinically insane, by which I mean you wake up in the morning and think you are an onion, here's your car
I wish I had bigger boobs. And I hate my butt. I want an onion butt.
 For this is every cook's opinion,
    No savoury dish without an onion;
    But lest your kissing should be spoiled,
    Your onions should be thoroughly boiled.
Give even an Onion graciously
Life is an onion and one peels it by crying
Indeed the tears live in an onion that shoud water this sorrow
Emperor? You old fake! / You're no Emperor. You're just an onion. / Now then, little Peer, I'm going to peel you.
We now feel we can cure the patient without his fully understanding what made him sick. We are no longer so interested in peeling the onion as in changing it.
He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce-suspected, animate the whole.
screams